# autobench - memory benchmark for LSL scripts

**autobench** does benchmarks for LSL scripts.  You provide it the
LSL code you want to benchmark the size of and it reports how many
bytes that code will occupy.

## Usage

```
Usage: autobench [-v] [--chatlog PATH] [--code CODE] [--globals NAME,...]
                 [--locals NAME,...] [--lsl SCRIPT] [--pad PAD]
                 [--params NAME,...] [--postamble POSTAMBLE]
                 [--preamble PREMBLE] [--statement CODE] [--title NAME] [FILE]
     --chatlog=PATH
                   path to chat.txt
     --code=CODE   code to test
     --globals=NAME,...
                   declare globals
     --locals=NAME,...
                   locals used with --statement
     --lsl=SCRIPT  path to temporary LSL script to write to
     --pad=PAD     padding instructions
     --params=NAME,...
                   parameters used with --statement
     --postamble=POSTAMBLE
                   Make STR the tests's postamble
     --preamble=PREMBLE
                   Make STR the tests's preamble
     --statement=CODE
                   statement(s) to test
     --title=NAME  name of benchmark
 -v                show the source before each execution
```


Exactly one of `--code`, `--statement`  or `FILE` must be specified.

## Examples:

**Determine the size of a function**

```
$ autobench --code "foo_COUNT(){llDie();}"
Size: 340 ±4
```

** Determine the size of a single statement**
```
$ autobench --preamble "integer g; foo() {" --code "g++;" --postamble "}"   
Size: 28 ±1
```

## Options:

### --chatlog

Specifies the chatlog to monitor.  This normally does not need to be specified.

### --code

Specifies the actual code to benchmark if FILE is not specified

### --globals

Specifies global variables to declare.  See the section below about variable
names and types.

### --lsl

Specifies where to write the LSL script.  This normally does not need to be specified.

### --locals

Specifies local variables to declare when used with `--statement`.  See the
section below about variable names and types.

### --pad

LSL instructions placed in the code to pad the base size.  These instructions are never executed.

### --params

Specifies parameters for the generated function by `--statement`.  See the
section below about variable names and types.

### --preamble/--postamble

A single copy of the preamble is written to the top of the script.
A single copy of the postamble is written after the test code has been written.

This is normally used when global variables are needed or when wanting to benchmark individual lines of LSL rather than an entire function.

### --statement

Specifies the statement to benchmark.  The statements will be repeated inside
of a function named `_`.  For example `--statement "llDie();"` results in

```
_() {
llDie();
...
}
```

## Variables

The `--global`, `--local`, and `--params` are used to declare variables to
automatically insert into the benchmark.  `--local`, and `--params` are only
used with `--statement`.  These variables are not part of the measurements.

### Names and types

The type of the variable is dependent on the first letter of its name (either case):

| Letter | Type |
|---|---|
| a | list |
| f | float |
| g | float |
| i | integer |
| j | integer |
| k | key |
| l | list |
| q | quaternion |
| r | quaternion |
| s | string |
| v | vector |
| x | integer |

Locals and globals may have values assigned (`--local i=1,f=3.14`).

The globals are inserted before any preamble.
The parameters are inserted in the function generated by `--statement`.
The locals are inserted as the first statements in the function generated by `--statement`.

Example: `autobench --globals f --parameters s --locals i,s1=\"foo\" --statement "llOwnerSay((string)i + s + s1);"`

Produces the code

```
float f;
_(string s) {
	integer i;
	string s1 = "foo";

	llOwnerSay((string)i + s + s1);
	...
}
```

## Details

**autobench** works by first producing a NUL version of the test code.  It consists of:

*  Globals from `--globals`
*  The preamble (if any)
*  `_(parameters) { locals; }` (with `--statement`)
*  The postamble (if any)
*  The test harness

This is run to determine the base memory use.

It then creates a script with multiple copies of the test code.  In the test code the word COUNT is replaced with the iteration count.  These scripts look like:

*  Globals from `--globals`
*  The preamble (if any)
*  `_(parameters) { locals`; (with `--statement`)
*  N copies of CODE with COUNT replaced by an index between [1..N)
*  `}` (with `--statement`)
*  The postamble (if any)
*  The test harness

It first benchmarks the CODE with 4 copies, using this to determine the maximum number of copies to test with.
The size is reported with how many bytes the size may be off.
